BOOK REVIEW: The Two Cultures . C.P.Snow
This book deals with a subject that I never thought could be a matter of concerns. You might be
wondering, due to the title of the book, that which are the 2 cultures that the author is talking about.
So let me introduce you to the book a little. For this, let me qoute from the introduction of the book
done by Stefan Collini:-
.The notion that our society, its education system and its intellectual life, is characterized by a split
between two cultures - the arts or humanities on one hand, and the sciences on the other - has a long
history.
Yes, the author is talking about the art and the science cultures as topposite poles. The very concept
of art and science being against each other didn't make sense to me. As from ancient times, we have
read that science, which is mostly developmental, comes from creativity. And also that .art. is the
other name of creativity. From the examples of Leonardo Da Vinci to Aristotle, we have heard of
examples over examples about how art complemented and motivated science. And then we see this
book, written by a writter-cum philosopher-cum scientific-researcher Charles Percy Snow.
The writter very nicely takes us through his experiences as a member of both, the writter
community and the scientific-community. About how the intellectuals of the highest class in both of
these sections do not agree on the same matter. About the differences seen in seemingly similar
people.
Although the book is more of a journey in which one can learn from the writter's experiences, the
book neither aims to teach a lesson to the reader, nor is it for just leisure reading. But through this
medium, the writer wants to dicert the attention of the masses to this great upcoming problem.
He fears that the two cultures do not lose coordination. Because if they lose it, it will be a great
blow to the man-kind. The rate of human development will suddenly drop and the world might stop
making itself better for the humans.
He might also be aiming the youth, the people who are yet to become intellectuals in one of these
proffesions. He wants every person to appreciate the the differences in thoughts of people from
different backgrounds and respect them for whatever they have achieved in whichever field they are
working in.
Although a lot of people, who are into literature and reading, have praised this writing of C.P.Snow,
I, being new to the reading world, do not find it quite attractive, and recommend a new reader not to
start with this. But for an aspiring intellectual in any field, this is a must read.


